# Data Story Design

To write my data story, I analyzed the original story and looked for points to agree and disagree with and why. However, on my first pass over the article, I was confused. I came in ready to attack every anti-vax point that the author made, but the data he showed seemed to back up his points very logically. I then more closely examined the visualizations and corresponding data sources, and I ended up finding deception after deception. Because of this, I decided to remake each of the visualizations to reveal all of the author's misleading tactics in an interactive way. I displayed each pair of visualizations side-by-side for easy comparison.

To start, my death visualization copied his same basic bar graph setup and color scheme. The two tactics that the author used were only showing a small subset of countries and flipping the y-axis, so I added toggles to allow people to correct them and see how that changed their perception of the data. I also included a ranking label next to the US' bar for readers to easily see how those changes affected the US' placement. My IMR visualization followed along the same lines.

The author's immunization schedule visualization did not show the full international picture, either. However, I was unable to mitigate this issue because I couldn't find a complete dataset on this topic. So I just made the visualization more informative by showing dose breakdowns of each immunization schedule in a stacked bar chart with tooltips. I did something similar for the US immunization schedule visualization by simply adding more helpful information. I recreated the design in Illustrator, added immunity percentages, and swapped out the scared baby for a smiling one because vaccines are good!

In the text between visualizations was where I went into detail about each falsehood, any limitations of my own visualizations, and all external references since the underlying theme of my article was transparency and fairness. Some of my personal opinions were sprinkled throughout the text as well. Each section helped build my argument for the final paragraph, in which I refuted the author's main claim based on the more fair data visualizations that I presented.